# Telegram Chat-Bot for detecting sugar and sweeteners.

Diabetes is a disease when the amount of glucose in the bloodstream is too high. Our bodies use glucose (the type of sugar) for producing energy for well-being. Typically, the insulin hormone, produced by our glands (pancreas), controls the glucose. The pancreas of people who are suffering from diabetes fails to produce insulin, or its quantity is deficient. It causes excess glucose in the bloodstream. This document offers an overview of the medical treatment of diabetes as well as a review of mobile applications that help to alleviate and not aggravate the symptoms of this disease. Currently, there is a significant number of diabetes Apps for managing glucose levels available, but there is no App, which could help to realize if a product contains sugar. Therefore, in this research, I will develop a Telegram Chat-Bot for people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes as well as for pre-diabetics. This app could protect a person from casual overconsumption of sugar, and sweeteners. Since manufacturers often carefully hide the word "sugar" and sweeteners with incomprehensible names, it is quite challenging to understand for a person whether this product can be eaten or not. Therefore, the proposed system will help an individual with diabetes of type 1 and 2 for self- monitoring glucose in the bloodstream and could aid the pre-diabetics. In this paper, two different methods are presented for the detecting word “sugar” and different sweeteners from the image. Proposed methodology is based on transfer learning, Neural Network (NN) and Object Character Recognition (OCR) where transfer learning is used for retraining NN VGG16, AlexNet and OCR is used for directly extracting words from the image with further preprocessing. The last approach was successfully implemented into messenger Telegram. 

Keywords: diabetes, NN, transfer learning, OCR, Telegram Chat-Bot.

Bot in action you can find at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AyUEhdws3K0
